Ahead of tomorrow’s inauguration of the ninth National Assembly, governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, as well as the party’s National Working Committee, NWC, Monday met with the APC caucus of the incoming National Assembly. The meeting which had several of the governors in attendance, was to finalize arrangements regarding its zoning of principal offices in the national assembly and ensure that lawmakers elected on the party’s platform vote as directed.  However, some of the aspirants who have vowed to pursue their ambitions in defiance of party directives were conspicuously absent from the meeting. Among those who were absent were Sen. Ali Ndume who is squaring up against the party’s choice, Sen. Ahmed Lawan for the office of the Senate president; Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu who is also against Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for the deputy presidency of the Senate and Umar Mohammed Bago who is vying for speaker, House of Representatives, against the party’s favoured candidate, Femi Gbajabiamila. Also absent were Sen. Danjuma Goje who had earlier stepped down for Lawan, as well as Sen. Francis Alimikhena who is also contesting against Sen. Omo-Agege.  Speaking with journalists at the end of the meeting, National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said the meeting was “basically to firm up all the conversations and lobbying that have gone on and we have already had a meeting with specific conclusions.” While he restated the decision of the party to support Sen. Lawan and Gbajabiamila for the office of Senate president and House speaker respectively, he said the party would also support Sen. Omo-Agege and Idris Wase as deputies for both positions.  “We have all agreed as a caucus to endorse distinguished Sen. Ahmed Lawan as APC candidate for the presidency of the senate and distinguished Sen. Omo-Agege for the deputy presidency of the senate. “All those that have stepped down as a mark of respect for the party leadership are all qualified and they are all unanimous to back the candidates of the party,” said Oshiomhole.