President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, Thursday, replied the leader of Indigenous people of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. He said that Kanu’s latest allegation against him necessitated his response. Nwodo in an open letter to Kanu, reeled out his contributions, performances and quashed the claims that he colluded with the Nigerian Army to attack Kanu’s residence in Umuahia.  “My attention has been drawn to a recorded speech made by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, leader of IPOB, now streaming in the social media. The speech was ostensibly made in Germany ahead of a visit, Sen. Ike Ekweremadu and I were scheduled to make to Germany for a meeting of Ndigbo. In that video, Nnamdi peddled unprintable lies about me and rebuked Igbos in Germany for inviting me and threatened that I will not leave Germany alive.  I would have ignored this speech as I have ignored many of his previous abuses and deliberate falsehood previously broadcast against me.”  “I had ignored them in the past not only because the distortions and falsehood were indirectly countered by the robust publicity of my activities and utterances which negated his representations but also because I thought it was indecent for a father and his son to be engaged in public disputations, especially when such disputations in our present circumstances will weaken our solidarity and portray us as a divided and unserious lot. It has however become necessary now to rebut his persistent falsehood because, not to do so will make them credible amongst those who may not have heard my side of the story.”  “By commencing an inventory of Igbo property in Nigeria for seizure by October 1st, 2017, they were attempting conversion. By proclaiming a mop-up action of those who did not comply with their order by October 1st, they were, without doubt, inciting genocide. Yet, in spite of all these, orders to arrest them by the Kaduna State Government and the Inspector General of Police were not enforced nor were they prevented from holding court with Governors and leading elders from the North”  “I rebuked the Federal Government for the way IPOB, an armless group fighting for self-determination, was classified as a terrorist organization whilst Fulani herdsmen classified by the Global Terrorist Index as the 4th deadliest terrorist organization in the world was treated with kid gloves. I maintained the same view in my public lectures at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, UNN, Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Anambra State and many other places within and outside Nigeria. I challenge Nnamdi to give me one single evidence of my involvement in conspiring Operation Python Dance.”  “Notwithstanding these abundant evidence of my championing IPOB cause, he ordered an invasion of my telephone with numerous insulting calls and threats to my life.  My home in Ukehe was bombed.  Police investigations of these incidences linked some of them to IPOB members.  Their lawyers approached me and I thought that a father taking his son to court and subsequently to jail would be un-Igbo.  Notwithstanding their confessional statements, I withdrew my compliant against them and they pledged to be of good behavior. Thereafter the campaign of calumny resumed.  Prof. Ben Nwabueze, a foremost Igbo leader, summoned two meetings of myself accompanied by some members of Ohanaeze executive and IPOB leaders to his homes in Enugu and Atani.  “After these meetings, he declared that IPOB has not established any prima facie case against me and that he did not want any of their spurious allegations raised again.  We shook hands and embraced each other. Nnamdi accuses me of being a Fulani stooge!! I am sure no reasonable Igbo man believes him.  I have criticized President Muhammed Buhari more than any other Nigerian.”  “Perhaps, what I don’t do is to insult his person or call Nigeria a zoo.  I was trained to be respectful.  I can disagree with you without being rude and impertinent. No matter how sectional, incompetent or unproductive I consider the President of Nigeria to be, I must respect his age and office in my criticisms of him.  As for the attack on my late father, I forgive Nnamdi. My father was Zik’s Minister and Okpara’s Minister.  My father and late Chief M.N Ugochukwu were some of the prominent financiers of the Biafran War.  I fought the Biafran War myself as a Biafran soldier at a very young age without my parents objecting. Yes, I served President Shehu Shagari and General Abdulsalami Abubakar as minister.  I respect them notwithstanding differences of opinion we may have on the structure of Nigeria.”  “Odumegwu Ojukwu was like my senior brother.  Bianca can attest to our closeness and my loyalty to him.  Vice President Alex Ekwueme was my mentor and friend.  Nnamdi Azikiwe confided in me and treated me like a son.  M.I. Okpara was the Chairman of my wedding.  Late Dr. Dozie Ikedife was the first person to sign my nomination form for the office of President General of Ohanaeze.  None of these Igbo leaders found me a traitor of Igbo cause.  Every-where I have been in Igboland, young men and women embrace me, pose for photographs with me and commend my efforts in championing our case.”  “I salute them all. The IPOB leader accuses me of joining the South East Governors to sabotage the cause of our people.  This young man neither does not understand nor appreciate the system we run.  Our Governors were elected in accordance with the law.  They are Chief Security Officers of our States even though the armed forces that should assist them take orders from Abuja. I do not belong to any organ in their governments.  They do not give me instructions neither do I give them.  We are supposed to cooperate and work together in the interest of our people.  Where we differ, I must respect our freedom to do so but in some cases I must also respect the confidentiality of our discussions.”  “Finally, no amount of insultive, provocative and incendiary speeches can get us Biafra or Restructuring. I was one of the agents that put together the Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum.  No pressure group in Nigeria is as strong as this group in the struggle to restructure Nigeria.  Restructuring Nigeria will give the South East sovereign independence in the control of our national resources and political control of our government structures. Short of a war you can’t force Nigeria to grant us Biafra.”  “I believe that working together we can achieve a referendum/constitutional amendment or a plebiscite.  That will be a first step to self-determination.  The journey of Catalonia and Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic are examples of how long and tedious the struggle for self-determination is in our contemporary world.  Let’s go step by step and without acrimony. I have noted the threats to my life from the IPOB leader.  I leave that to God and the law.”  “Ndigbo will recall that when the leader of IPOB was released, the South East Senate caucus advised him to leverage with me and other Igbo leaders so that we can achieve a synergy.  We met once and three weeks after that in spite of our cordial discussions, I was the subject of his abuse on Radio Biafra.  It would appear that he is on a megalomaniac streak where he arrogates to himself the monopoly of wisdom and capacity to cause mayhem. Ndigbo, I have championed your cause with every amount of energy in me.  I have worked with little encouragement or assistance. Thank God my team and I have elevated Ohanaeze Ndigbo to an enviable status.  It is dangerous for our solidarity and ultimate success if we allow these vituperative outbursts to truncate our solidarity.”  “In spite of all I say, I salute Nnamdi for his courage and his persistence in upholding our case but I urge you all to rise up and condemn what is condemnable.  Speak up and shame those who would want us to split into pieces and destroy our resolve to fight as a united people. As a father, I will always forgive an erring child but not without drawing his attention to a misdemeanor which should never be repeated.”