Dividend pay-out by banks rose 12.6 percent for their financial year ended December 2018 despite the dividend restriction policy introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN. About nine banks scaled the CBN hurdle while four were caught napping. Leading banks quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, paid N259.4 billion to their shareholders, as against N230.4 billion in the financial year 2017. The five Tier-1 banks were responsible for the huge dividend pay-out, accounting for 87.4 percent of the total dividend declared by the 13 banks captured in the review period while the CBN’ dividend policy affected most of the Tier-2 banks.  Furthermore, directors of the nine banks went home with N17.9 billion in the year 2018 as against N15.8 billion in 2017, representing a growth of 13.2 percent The CBN last year came up with a policy on dividend which had intended to discourage high dividend pay-outs by banks on the heels of worsening Non-Performing Loans, NPLs, which was eroding banks’ capital adequacy. The policy was meant to force the banks to plough back their profits to beef up their capital.  The CBN guideline stated: “In order to facilitate sufficient and adequate capital build up for banks in tandem with their risk appetite, the following directives will now apply: “Any Deposit Money Bank (DMB) or Discount House (DH) that does not meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio shall not be allowed to pay dividend; DMBs and DHs that have a Composite Risk Rating (CRR) of “High” or a NPL ratio of above 10 percent shall not be allowed to pay dividend; DMBs and DHs that meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio but have a CRR of “Above Average” or an NPL ratio of more than five percent but less than 10 percent shall have dividend payout ratio of not more than 30 percent; DMBs and DHs that have capital adequacy ratios of at least three percent above the minimum requirement, CRR of “Low” and NPL ratio of more than five percent but less than 10 percent, shall have dividend pay-out ratio of not more than 75 percent of profit after tax.  “There shall be no regulatory restriction on dividend pay-out for DMBs and DHs that meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio, have a CRR of “low” or “moderate” and an NPL ratio of not more than five percent. However, it is expected that the Board of such institutions will recommend payouts based on effective risk assessment and economic realities; No DMB or DH shall be allowed to pay dividend out of reserves.”  Prior to this guideline, most banks adopted aggressive dividend policy, partly to shore up their share prices and also to satisfy top directors’ need for cash. However, Financial Vanguard analysis on the dividend pay-outs in the financial year 2018 revealed that four banks were caught in the CBN net forcing their shareholders and directors to go home empty-handed. The banks are Union Bank Plc, Unity Bank Plc, Sterling Bank Plc and Jaiz Bank Plc.  Meanwhile, during the seventh annual general meeting, AGM of Jaiz Bank in Abuja, the chairman, Jaiz Bank, Dr. Umaru Mutallab had said: “While the board had tried to recommend the payment of dividend for the 2018 financial period, the regulators felt otherwise.” Mutallab told the shareholders that the regulators of the bank were of the view that there was a need for Jaiz Bank to improve on some specific performance benchmarks. He said some of the performance benchmarks included improvement in capital buffers and reduction in non-performing loans.  The nine banks that met the CBN’s requirements for dividend pay-outs include Zenith Bank Plc, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa, UBA Plc, FBN Holdings Plc, Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, Access Bank Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc, FCMB Group Plc and Wema Bank Plc.