….To face Murder Charges The attention of Lagos State Police Command was drawn to a video on social media showing some Police Officers shooting two unarmed suspects who were arrested and already in their custody against the code of professional conduct and laws guiding how suspects in Police custody should be treated. The Policemen who were identified as Inspector Fabiyi Omomayara, Sergeant Olaniyi Solomon,  Sergeant Solomon Sunday and Corporal Aliyu Mukaila were attached to Iba Division Patrol team.  The incident which occured on Monday at about 3.00pm, when Iba Police Station received a distress call  from one Anugu Valentine 'm' of no 250 Agege  motor road Mushin, that he was attacked by a group of armed men  numbering about four  on two  motorcycles at Ipayi area, Iba and they dispossessed him of one iPhone  max valued at #450: 000.  Acting on the information, the Divisional Police Officer Iba promptly deployed the Divisional Patrol team to the scene. Two of the armed robbers were arrested while two escaped. Two locally made pistols  with six life cartridges and five  expended cartridges were recovered. The gang is said to be notorious for series of robberies in Iba and environs. It was a well celebrated operation by the team as the suspects were gallantly arrested.  The team however, went extreme by killing the suspects who were already in their custody instead of taking them to the Police Station and allowing the normal process of investigation and prosecution to be initiated as stipulated under procedural laws. That act of extra judicial killings falls short of police professional standards and cannot be condoned by the Command.  The Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Zubairu Muazu MNI has ordered a thorough investigation into the incident. The Police Officers are currently subjected to internal disciplinary proceedings known as Orderly Room trial and if found culpable, they will be dismissed from the Force and will be handed over to the State Criminal Investigation Department Yaba for prosecution in the conventional Court. Members of the Public will be updated on the outcome of the investigation and trial.