Everton have sacked manager Marco Silva after 18 months, with the club in the Premier League relegation zone after their Merseyside derby humiliation. Wednesday's 5-2 defeat by Liverpool at Anfield was their ninth of the season and leaves them 18th in the Premier League after three successive losses. Silva, who took charge in May 2018, won 24 and lost 24 of his 60 games.  Shanghai SIPG boss Vitor Pereira is a contender to succeed Silva, while David Moyes' return can not be ruled out. Former striker Duncan Ferguson has been put in temporary charge and will manage the side against Chelsea on Saturday. The club said they aim to appoint a new manager "as swiftly as possible". Everton are now searching for their fourth permanent boss since Roberto Martinez was sacked in May 2016.  Silva has now had three jobs in English football that have all ultimately ended in failure and been characterised by promising starts followed by steep declines. In his four months in charge of Hull, his side accumulated 17 points from his first 11 games - but only four from the next seven as they were relegated from the Premier League.  Two days after leaving the Tigers, Silva joined Watford in May 2017 and took the team into the top four during his first few months in charge. His side took 21 points from 13 games but the Hornets only won once in his next 11 matches, before Silva was sacked in January 2018. Some of this was attributed by the Vicarage Road hierarchy to Everton's approach for Silva the previous November - before hiring Allardyce.  Former Everton manager Moyes has been considered as a potential interim successor, but the suggestion has sparked a largely negative reaction from supporters and it remains to be seen whether majority shareholder Farhad Moshiri and his boardroom colleagues ignore that and invite the 56-year-old Scot to return.  Moyes spent 11 years as Everton manager, and his return has been seen by fans as a retrograde step given his lack of success since leaving for Manchester United in 2013. He was sacked at United and Real Socieded and was in charge of Sunderland when they were relegated from the Premier League before having a short spell at West Ham. It has been suggested that if Moyes does return he could bring another Everton old boy, Tim Cahill, back as his assistant.  