The Senate, Tuesday pleaded with the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities, SSANU, and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities, NASU, to jettison their planned nationwide strike in the interest of students. Consequently, it resolved to engage SSANU and NASU to ensure a lasting solution was found to issues that triggered the warning strike.  The resolutions of the Senate were sequel to a point of order raised by Senator Barau Jibrin, APC, Kano North, who drew the attention of his colleagues to the looming strike by the labour unions. Senator Jibrin, who came under Order 42 and 52 of the Standing Orders as Amended, said: “It is saddening that the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities, SSANU, and Non-academic Staff Union of Nigeria Universities, NASU, have given notice of commencing an industrial action over a number of issues which, if not addressed and resolved, will truncate the smooth running of universities in the country.  Jibrin expressed concerns over the alleged refusal by the federal government to heed to their request since 2006. According to him, the grievances of the two bodies also included the delay in the payment of the gratuity and pension of their members and refusal to attend to other agreements earlier reached with the government.  The senator, who noted that the allegation of the two unions that ASUU was being accorded preferential treatment by the federal government and should be looked into. Of the funds released to public universities, he said 80% was earmarked as academic allowances, while only 20% was allocated to non-academic staff.  Jibrin regretted that rather than accept what they were given by the federal government, SSANU and NASU were making fresh demands of the release of N20 billion to non-teaching staff and allowance for 2009 to 2016. Other senators who contributed, supported that the Senate and other relevant government agencies should quickly step into the matter and avert the impending strike. They warned that any industrial action from these unions would negatively affect learning and the entire economy.   In his remarks, President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, hailed Jibrin for bringing up the matter, even as he assured that the Senate would intervene to stop the strike.