After five days of the screening exercise, the Senate will confirm the 43 ministerial nominees forwarded to it by President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday. Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, who disclosed this Monday, after the screening of nine nominees, said that three remaining nominees, the Immediate past Minister of Information and Culture, Chief Lai Mohammed from Kwara State; Sabo Nanono from Kano State; and Engr. Saleh Mamman from Taraba State, will be screened today.   After the screening of the three nominees, Senate President Lawan said the Senate will same day, confirm the nominees for onward presentation to President Buhari to assign portfolios and swear them in as ministers. Lawan said: “Tomorrow (Tuesday) by the grace of God, we will be taking three nominees. We will do the approval and confirmation of all the screened nominees tomorrow.”  Those screened on Monday include immediate past Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola; former Governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola and Senator Gbemisola Saraki from Kwara State. Also screened were Goddy Jedy- Agba from Cross River; Engr. Suleiman Adamu from Jigawa; Clement Agba from Edo State; Ambassador Maryam Katagum from Bauchi State; Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud from Kaduna State; and Geoffrey Onyeama from Enugu State. Out of the 40 nominees screened so far, 20 were given the privilege of “take a bow and go” without being subjected to the rigours of questioning by senators.   The 20 nominees who took a bow and left were Abubakar Aliyu (Yobe), Otumba Niyi Adebayo (Ekiti), Chris Ngige (Anambra), Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), George Akume (Benue), Emeka Nwajiuaba (Imo), Olorunnimbe Mamora (Lagos), Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers), Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo), Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa), Muhammadu Musa Bello (Adamawa), and Hadi Sirika (Katsina). Also excluded from scrutiny were seven female nominees: Zainab Ahmed (Kaduna), Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra), Ramatu Aliyu (Kogi), Sa’adiya Farouk (Zamfara) and Pauline Tallen (Plateau State), Senator Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara), and Ambassador Maryam Katagum (Bauchi).