An international charity group, THursday, declared that six of its aid workers who were kidnapped in Borno State, Nigeria, last week have appeared in a video, renewing fresh concerns for the safety of Leah Sharibu and Alice Loksha, a UNICEF worker. The group, Action Against Hunger, said the six aid workers, comprising of one staff member, plus drivers and health workers employed locally, were “apparently in a good condition of health.”  The unverifiable video, seen by the BBC, shows one of the aid workers wearing a light blue hijab, pleading with the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, the federal government and the international community to assist in their release to avoid what happened to earlier aid workers, including Alice and Leah Sharibu.  Surrounded by five men believed to be her colleagues, the woman said her name was Grace, and called on the federal government and international community to intervene. No group has claimed responsibility for the abduction but it is suspected to be the work of Islamist insurgents. There are two main groups active in north-eastern Nigeria where the abduction happened – Boko Haram and the rival Islamic State of West Africa Province, ISWAP.  Earlier this week, Action Against Hunger released a statement saying a convoy of its vehicles on the road to Damasak, Borno State, had been attacked, adding that one of the drivers was killed, while the rest of the team were missing. “These are humanitarian workers who chose to devote their lives to helping the most vulnerable,” the Paris-based charity said in its latest statement released yesterday. Meanwhile, another entity, the US Nigeria Law Group said, yesterday, that the forensic analysis it conducted on the aid workers’ claim in the video indicated Leah Sharibu has not been killed.”  The US Nigeria Law Group said in its report signed by Emmanuel Ogebe Thursday: ‘’A proof of life video released last night (Wednesday) of aid workers abducted last week contains the unsettling report that heroine Christian Schoolgirl, Leah Sharibu, has been killed.   However, reacting to the claim, Defence and Army headquarters said Thursday they were yet to receive briefings on its veracity. Spokesman of Defence headquarters, Col Onyema Nwachukwu, said he had no information regarding the claim, noting that if he was briefed, he would get back to Vanguard. Similarly, Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, said he was yet to receive any information on the alleged killing. Vanguard, however, gathered that the military authorities were making efforts to get commanders on the theatre of operations to investigate the claim.  Meanwhile the Presidency, Thursday, expressed worry over the recent video released by the terrorist group showing some abducted Nigerians. The Presidency said that the latest video has created urgency for the security agencies especially the secret services in the efforts to ensuring the release of those on the captivity of terrorist groups. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja read, “The Presidency has been briefed by the responsible government agency about the disturbing video showing our citizens, the humanitarian aid workers held captive.”  “Presidency has been given assurances that contact is being made and the captors are being talked to. Besides these aid workers, there are some others about whom this engagement is about-Leah Sharibu, a religious leader and all the others. These discussions have been ongoing even before this time and what this latest incident has done is to bring urgency to the efforts that the secret service is making. Government is making contacts, in the hope that the captors will see reason to not visit hardship or even harm on these innocent individuals. Government is working.”