Serena Williams has cruised into the third round of the French Open with a straight-set victory over Japanese qualifier Kurumi Nara. The 23-time Grand Slam champion beat 27-year-old Nara 6-3 6-2 in one hour seven minutes.  "I'm very serious when I play, but I'm happy," said Williams, 37. She added: "I have had a tough year since I twisted my ankle in Australia. "It's just been really tough after that. So everything definitely feels a little bit harder than normal, but at the same time, I know that it's going to get better."  The first set remained on serve for the first seven games, with world number 238 Nara proving a decent match for her opponent in the opening exchanges. But Williams eventually broke Nara's serve to move 5-3 ahead before serving out the set. She dominated the second set, breaking Nara's serve twice before serving out the match with an ace, having not dropped a point in the final game.  On facing Kenin next, Williams said: "I know her game really well. She had a really great run in Australia, and I have been watching her. "I think it will be a good match. She has a lot to bring to the table." American 10th seed Williams will play compatriot Sofia Kenin next after her opponent, Canada's Bianca Andreescu, withdrew with a shoulder injury.  Elsewhere, fellow American Amanda Anisimova reached the third round after beating 11th seed Aryna Sabalenka 6-4 6-2. She will next play Romania's Irina-Camelia Begu, who defeated Karolina Muchova of the Czech Republic 1-6 6-3 6-4.  At 17, Anisimova is the youngest American to reach the third round at Roland Garros since Williams in 1999. "She's done so much for the sport," world number 51 Anisimova said of Williams. "She's a huge inspiration to me. I really look up to her. That's just great to be achieving stuff similar to her. "Actually when I had a tough loss at the Miami Open - it was a really long match and I was super upset in the locker room - Serena actually came up to me and we shared a little bit of a chat. "That was really nice of her, and I'll remember it forever."  Williams said: "I just needed to do that, and I know she's super young. I really love all the new young players. "It's just so exciting. I feel like tennis has done so much for me, and to see a new generation come through is great."