Despite the expiration of the 72-hour directive for the removal of all trucks and tankers in Apapa and its environs, the heavy duty vehicles still occupied most routes in the area Monday.  Motorists and residents experienced the usual gridlock as many vehicles were still parked indiscriminately on the roads. The worst hit areas are Otto-Wharf, Mile -2, Kirikiri junction, Mazamaza/Mile-2 Bridge, Old Ojo Road, Sunrise, and Trinity.  Some armed Mobile policemen were seen controlling the traffic to some extent, but they were practically overwhelmed by large number of trucks on the roads. However, Vanguard noticed that the trucks were no longer at Cele, Ijesha, Sanya, and Second Rainbow by Fatgbems Filling Station.   These came as a female officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, was crushed to death while enforcing the Presidential Order yesterday. The female officer identified as 33-year-old Folashade Arogundade, was said to have been crushed to death while a truck was reversing. However, some truck drivers, who were stuck in the gridlock, yesterday, told Vanguard that they were driving to a park that had been earmarked for them.  Upon inquiry as to whether the relocation of the vehicles had commenced, Chief Executive of LASTMA, Chris Olakpe, said the joint taskforce has commenced enforcement gradually. Olapke said: “All I can tell you is that it’s a vacation order by Mr. President and activities and action have commenced. And the trucks are being moved to areas used as parking bay. The stakeholders have met and they are cooperative but activity is going on. With the collaboration of the private sector with LASTMA as arrow head in conjunction with men of the Federal Road Safety Commission, FRSC, they are working very hard.  “The challenge is that people really want to see the effect of enforcement immediately but I can assure the populace that by tomorrow (today) and Tuesday, the effect will be visible with astronomical improvement in traffic situation in the area. “Pragmatic action is on-going, vehicles are being moved out. The operators of the trucks are also complying voluntarily backed up with serious enforcement, because they were part of the stakeholders’ meeting. Presently, we are dealing with the Trinity area and I’m sure the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Terminal at Orile-Igamu is almost completed to be used as parking bay very soon.  “The operation being carried out on public private partnership collaboration is very much in place. We have sufficient capacity in terms of human material and equipment to achieve a resounding success for the operation.  “However, the operators should sustain the voluntary compliance or face the wrath of the law. Any operator caught flouting the directive will be arrested and prosecuted accordingly. This is a sustainable operation until sanity is restored and there is peace and tranquility, progress that is visible and accessible for all Nigerians.”  On the fear of security operatives not being compromised, Olakpe said: “This will be different because it has the direct backing of President Muhammadu Buhari. It’s not something to joke with. The directive has both the teeth to bite and make sure everything is effective, effectual, dynamic and pragmatic operation. “The Lagos State Government is fully conscious of its responsibility to protect lives and property, as well as enforce the laws duly made for the safety of all.”  