UK and EU have found common ground on Brexit deal, before a meeting of European leaders in Brussels. Boris Johnson and Jean-Claude Juncker deemed it to be a "fair" outcome and the EU Commission President said there was no need to extend the Brexit deadline.  "We have a deal so why should we have a prolongation," he said.  Although this will prove favourable to the Prime Minister, he still faces a battle to get the deal through Parliament on Saturday, with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) opposing it. Mr Johnson urged MPs to "come together" and "get this excellent deal over the line".  "Now is the moment for us to get Brexit done and then together work on building our future partnership, which I think can be incredibly positive both for the UK and for the EU," he added.  Brexit should happen "without any more delay", he further said, so that the government could turn its attention to domestic priorities. The prime minister has repeatedly insisted the UK will leave the EU on 31 October - he could yet be forced to ask for an extension but it will be up to the leaders of the 27 member states - not Jean-Claude Juncker - whether to grant one  The two sides worked fervently on the legal text of the deal, but it will still need the approval of both the UK and European parliaments. In a statement, the Democratic Unionist Party, which the government relies on for support in key votes, said: "These proposals are not, in our view, beneficial to the economic well-being of Northern Ireland and they undermine the integrity of the Union."  "Saturday's vote in Parliament on the proposals will only be the start of a long process to get any Withdrawal Agreement Bill through the House of Commons," It added.  Although deal shares semblance with the one agreed by Theresa May last year, it, however, differs in the Northern Ireland proposal. According to the new deal, the UK will continue to abide by EU rules until the end of 2020, and possibly longer, to allow businesses to adjust; they will still pay an estimated £33bn "divorce bill" The rights of EU citizens living in the UK, and UK citizens in the EU, will be guaranteed